Docs: Polish profile documentation (#110494)
python/cpython: Doc/library/profile.rst

provides a very brief overview, and allows a user to rapidly perform profiling
on an existing application.

> To profile a statement with the namespace of ``__main__``, you can do::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To profile a statement in the current namespace, you can do::
```

Author: Actually, you can't :). `run` will literally use the `__main__` namespace, not the local one.

Reviewer: Indeed.
```suggestion
To profile a statement with the namespace of :mod:`__main__`, you can do::
```
Or "in the top-level code environment".

Author: I don't think "top-level code enviroment" is clearer than "__main__", but using the module might help.

> To profile a statement with the namespace of :mod:`__main__`, you can do::

Reviewer 2: I think this phrasing is a bit awkward. Maybe:

```suggestion
To profile a single statement, you can do::
```

I feel like the comment about the `__main__` namespace will probably just confuse most people, right? If you disagree, maybe rephrase as:

```suggestion
To execute and profile a statement in the :mod:`__main__` namespace, you can do::
```

Author: Yeah the comment about `__main__` will probably confuse users as it's a relatively deep detail. Especially considering this is the "instant user manual". So I'll take that out.

The :class:`pstats.Stats` class reads profile results from a file and formats
them in various ways.

> You can also do inline profiling with :class:`Profile`::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also do inline profiling with :class:`~cProfile.Profile`::
```

Author: Using `cProfile.Profile` makes sense, because the context manager only works with `cProfile`. However, I don't think the `~` should be used.

> You can also do inline profiling with :class:`cProfile.Profile`::

Reviewer: Hmm, there is still a broken link.

On another hand, this example seems to be redundant: there is such one, right in the description of the Profile class.

Author: The reason this example is added is that I believe this example should be in the "instant manual" - which the users who are not interested in the details of cProfile/profile can refer to when they just want a quick profile. I'd say, in many (if not most) cases, users do not want to convert their code into a string - so this kind of inline profiling is what they need.

Yes there's the broken link, but that's how the other part of the docs use it ... The problem is this document is technically ``profile``, but we also put ``cProfile`` stuff in it. The context usage is only available for `cProfile` so `cProfile` should be explicit. We do either this, like the other part of the documentation, or a raw code.

Reviewer 2: Does `` :class:`cProfile.Profile <profile.Profile>` `` work?

Author: Yes this works. Nice trick!

   .. versionadded:: 3.8
      Added the ``-m`` option to :mod:`profile`.

> Note that if the process is terminated by ``SIGTERM`` during profiling, no

Reviewer: How about SIGKILL? ;)

Author: Good point, I changed the description a bit as there might be other cases when the profiling won't work.

Limitations
===========

One limitation has to do with accuracy of timing information. There is a
fundamental problem with deterministic profilers involving accuracy.  The most
obvious restriction is that the underlying "clock" is only ticking at a rate
(typically) of about .001 seconds.  Hence no measurements will be more accurate
than the underlying clock.  If enough measurements are taken, then the "error"
will tend to average out. Unfortunately, removing this first error induces a

> second source of error.

Reviewer 2: Personally, I like this paragraph, and it still contains meaningful information. I'd just update it to leave out specifics about resolution.

Author: Sure. But in reality, the clock resolution should not be an issue (or significant issue compared to other source) anymore. If we list this as limitation, there are a LOT of factors that we could potentially write here.

> inside the trace function set by :func:`sys.settrace` or :func:`sys.setprofile`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
inside trace functions set using :func:`sys.settrace` or :func:`sys.setprofile`.
```

Reviewer 2: I'd also move this down near the bottom, since it seems like a pretty niche issue.

To avoid infinite recursion, :mod:`profile` and :mod:`cProfile` do not work
inside the trace function set by :func:`sys.settrace` or :func:`sys.setprofile`.

The second problem is that it "takes a while" from when an event is dispatched
It "takes a while" from when an event is dispatched
until the profiler's call to get the time actually *gets* the state of the
clock.  Similarly, there is a certain lag when exiting the profiler event
handler from the time that the clock's value was obtained (and then squirreled
away), until the user's code is once again executing.  As a result, functions
that are called many times, or call many functions, will typically accumulate
this error. The error that accumulates in this fashion is typically less than
the accuracy of the clock (less than one clock tick), but it *can* accumulate

> and become very significant.

Reviewer 2: I'd leave this?

Author: The sentence `the error that accumulates in this fashion is typically less than
the accuracy of the clock (less than one clock tick)` is incorrect now, as the accuracy of the clock has improved a lot for the last .. I don't know how many years. This is definitely more significant than the clock accuracy issue. Do you want me to keep the "become very significant"?
